Let's take a look at
some ways to improve
the consistency of your labels.
Here's a general
process you can use.
If you are worried about
labels being inconsistent,
find a few examples and have
multiple labelers label
the same example.
In some cases you can also have
the same labeler
label an example,
wait a while until
they have hopefully
forgotten or technical
term is wash out,
but have them take a break
and then come back and
re-label it and see if they're
even consistent with themselves.
When you find that
there's disagreements,
have the people
responsible for labeling,
this could be the
machine label engineer,
it could be the
subject matter expert,
such as the manufacturing
expert that is responsible
for labeling what is a stretch
and what isn't a stretch,
and/or the dedicated labelers,
discuss together what
they think should
be a more consistent
definition of a label y,
and try to have them
reach an agreement.
Ideally, also document and
write down that agreement,
and this definition of y
can then become an updated set of
labeling instructions
that they can go back to
label new data or to
relabel old data.
During this discussion, in
some cases the labelers will
come back and say
they don't think
the input x has
enough information.
If that's the case,
consider changing the input x.
For example, when we saw
the pictures of phones,
they were was so dark that we
couldn't even tell
what was going on,
that was a sign that we should
consider increasing
the illumination,
the lighting with which
the pictures were taken.
But of course, I know this
isn't always possible,
but sometimes this
can be a big help.
Then all this is an
iterative process.
So after improve x or
after improving the
label instructions,
you will ask the team
to label more data.
If you think there are
still disagreements,
then repeat the whole process of
having multiple labelers
label the same example,
major disagreement and so on.
Let's look at some examples.
One common outcome of
this type of exercise
is to standardize the
definition of labels.
Between these ways of labeling
the audio clip you heard
on the earlier video,
perhaps the labelers
will standardize
on this as the convention,
or maybe they'll
pick a different one
and that could be okay too.
But at least this makes
the data more consistent.
Another common decision
that I've seen come out
of a process like this
is merging classes.
If in your labeling
guidelines you asked labelers
to label deep scratches on
the surface of the phone,
as well as shallow scratches
on the surface of the phone,
but if the definition
between what constitutes
a deep scratch versus
a shallow scratch,
barely visible here
I know, is unclear,
then you end up with
labelers very inconsistently
labeling things as deep
versus shallow scratches.
Sometimes the factory
does really need to
distinguish between deep
versus shallow scratches.
Sometimes factories
need to do this to
figure out what was the
cause of the defect.
But sometimes I found that you
don't really need to
distinguish between
these two classes,
and you can instead merge
the two classes into
a single class, say,
the scratch class, and
this gets rid of all of
the inconsistencies
with different
labelers labeling the same
thing deep versus shallow.
Merging classes isn't
always applicable,
but when it is,
it simplifies the task for
the learning algorithm.
One of the technique I've used
is to create a new class,
or create a new label
to capture uncertainty.
For example, let's say you
asked labelers to label
phones as defective or not
based on the length
of the scratch.
Here's a sequence of smartphones
with larger and larger scratches.
Not sure if you can see
these on your display,
but let me just make them a
little bit more visible here.
I know that all of these are
really large scratches if
this is a real phone
you're buying.
This is just for
illustrative purposes.
Maybe everyone agrees that the
giant scratch is a defect,
a tiny scratch is not a defect,
but they don't agree
on what's in between.
If it was possible to
get them to agree,
then that would be one way
to reduce label ambiguity.
But if that turns
out to be difficult,
then here's another option;
which is to create
a new class where you
now have three labels.
You can say, it's
clearly not a defect,
or clearly a defect,
or just acknowledge
there's some examples are
ambiguous and put them in
a new borderline class.
If it becomes easier
to come up with
consistent instructions for
this three class problem,
because maybe some examples
are genuinely borderline,
then that could potentially
improve labeling consistency.
Let me use speech illustration
to illustrate this further.
Given this audio clip,
[inaudible] I really can't
tell what they said.
[inaudible] If you were
to force everyone
to transcribe it,
some labelers would
transcribe, "Nearly go."
Some maybe they'll say,
"Nearest grocery," and it's
very difficult to get to
consistency because
the audio clip is
genuinely ambiguous.
To improve labeling consistency,
it may be better to
create a new tag,
the unintelligible tag, and
just ask everyone to label this
as nearest [inaudible]
unintelligible.
This can result in
more consistent labels than
if we were to ask everyone to
guess what they heard when
it really is unintelligible.
Let me wrap up with some
suggestions for working with
small versus big datasets to
improve label consistency.
We've just been talking
about unstructured data or
problems where we can count
on people to label the data.
For small datasets there's
usually a small
number of labelers.
So when you find
an inconsistency,
you can ask the labelers
to sit down and
discuss a specific image
or a specific audio clip,
and try to drive to an agreement.
For big datasets,
it would be more
common to try to get to
consistent definition
with a small group,
and then send the
labeling instructions
to a larger group of labelers.
One other technique
that is commonly used,
but I think overused
in my opinion,
is that you can have
multiple labelers
label every example
and then let them vote.
Voting is sometimes called
consensus labeling,
in order to increase accuracy.
I find that this type of
voting mechanism technique,
it can work, but it's
probably over used in
machine learning today.
Where what I've
seen a lot of teams
do is have inconsistent
labeling instructions,
and then try to have a lot
of labelers and then voting,
to try to make it
more consistent.
But before resorting to this,
which I do use,
but more of a last resort,
I would use the first,
try to get to more consistent
label definitions,
to try to make the
individual labelers choices
less noisy in the first place,
rather than take a lot
of noisy data and then
try to use voting to
reduce the noise.
I hope that the tools you
just learnt for improving
label consistency
will help you to get
better data for your
machine learning task.
One of the gaps I see in
the machine learning world
today is that there's
still a lack of tools,
and there are also
machine learning ops
tools for helping teams
to carry out this type of
process more consistently
and repeatedly.
It's not us trying to
figure this out in
the Jupyter Notebook,
but instead to have tools help
us to detect when labels are
inconsistent and
to help facilitate
the process in improving
the quality of the data.
This is something I look
forward to hopefully
our community working
on and developing.
In terms of improving
label quality,
one of the questions
that often comes up is:
What is human level
performance on the task?
I find human level
performance to be
important and sometimes
misused concept.
Let's take a deeper look
at this in the next video.